[master < igraph_support] Igraph query module docs (#576)
memgraph/docs: mage/query-modules/python/igraphalg.md

---
id: igraphalg
title: igraphalg
sidebar_label: igraphalg
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
style={{
  backgroundColor: color,
  borderRadius: '2px',
  color: '#fff',
  padding: '0.2rem',
}}>
{children}
  </span>
);

[![docs-source](igraphalg)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/igraphalg.py)

## Abstract

> This module, named **igraphalg**, provides a comprehensive set of thin wrappers around some of the algorithms present in the [Igraph](https://igraph.org/) package. The wrapper functions now have the capability to create a Igraph compatible graph-like object that can stream the native database graph directly saving on memory usage significantly.

Reviewer: Nice to see igraph being used in more and more projects! :-) Just wanted to point out that igraph prefers the lowercase spelling.

> This module, named **igraphalg**, provides a comprehensive set of thin wrappers around some of the algorithms present in the [igraph](https://igraph.org/) package. The wrapper functions now can create an igraph compatible graph-like object that can stream the native database graph directly saving on memory usage significantly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The  **igraphalg** module provides a comprehensive set of thin wrappers around some of the algorithms present in the [igraph](https://igraph.org/) package. The wrapper functions can create an igraph compatible graph-like object that can stream the native database graph directly, significantly lowering memory usage.
```

| Trait               | Value                                                                                                     |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**module**</Highlight>                                                         |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**Python**</Highlight>                                                         |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed**</Highlight>/<Highlight color="#FB6E00">**undirected**</Highlight> |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**weighted**</Highlight>/<Highlight color="#FB6E00">**unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight>                                                     |

## Procedures
### `get_all_simple_paths(v, to, cutoff)`

Returns all simple paths in the graph `G` from source to target. A simple path is a path with no repeated nodes.

#### Input:

> * `v: Vertex` ➡ Starting node for the path.
> * `to: Vertex` ➡ Ending node for the path.
> * `cutoff: int (default=-1)` ➡ Maximum length of path that is considered. If negative, paths of all lengths are considered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `v: Vertex` ➡ Path's starting node.
* `to: Vertex` ➡ Path's ending node.
* `cutoff: int (default=-1)` ➡ Maximum length of the considered path. If negative, paths of all lengths are considered.
```

#### Output:

> * `path: List[Vertex]` ➡ List of vertices for a certain path. If there are no paths between the source and target within the given cutoff there is no output.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `path: List[Vertex]` ➡ List of vertices for a certain path. If there are no paths between the source and the target within the given cutoff, there is no output.
```

#### Usage:
```cypher
MATCH (n:Label), (m:Label)
CALL igraphalg.get_all_simple_paths(n, m, 5) YIELD *
RETURN path;
```

### `spanning_tree(weights, directed)`
Returns a minimum spanning tree on a graph `G`.

>  A *minimum spanning tree* is a subset of the edges of a connected, graph that connects all of the vertices without any cycles.

Reviewer 2: Why is there a comma (,) after connected?

#### Input:

* `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡  Data key to use for edge weights.

> * `directed: bool (default=False)` ➡  Is graph directed or undirected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `directed: bool (default=False)` ➡  If `true` the graph is directed, otherwise it's undirected
```

#### Output:

* `tree: List[List[Vertex]]` ➡  A minimum spanning tree or forest.

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL igraphalg.spanning_tree() 
YIELD *
RETURN tree;
```

### `pagerank(damping, weights, directed,implementation)`
Returns the PageRank of the nodes in the graph.

PageRank computes a ranking of the nodes in graph G based on the structure of the incoming links. It was originally designed as an algorithm to rank web pages.

#### Input:

* `damping: double (default=0.85)` ➡  Damping parameter for PageRank.
* `weights: string (default="weight")` ➡  Edge data key to use as a weight. If `None`, weights are set to 1.

> * `directed: bool (default=True)` ➡  Is Graph directed or undirected.
> * `implementation: string (default="prpack")` ➡  Algorithm used for calculating PageRank values. The Algorithm can be either `prpack` or `arpack`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `directed: bool (default=True)` ➡  If `true` the graph is directed, otherwise it's undirected
* `implementation: string (default="prpack")` ➡  Algorithm used for calculating PageRank values. The algorithm can be either `prpack` or `arpack`.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm missing what's prpack vs arpack? should this be general knowledge?

Reviewer: I am not involved with this PR, but I can give some background info. igraph implements several methods for calculating PageRank scores, and this parameter selects the method. `arpack` phrases the calculation as an eigenvalue problem which is then solved using the ARPACK library. `prpack` uses the PRPACK library, which uses an algebraic method, i.e. phrases as the problem as a set of linear equations.

I believe the reason for having several implementation is historical, as successively better implementations were added. The original method used a plain power iteration, which is not very reliable, so it's now removed. Then came the more robust ARPACK-based implementation, and finally PRPACK, which is usually considerably faster. We kept both the ARPACK and PRPACK-based methods, partly for verification, and partly because there are some edge cases where PRPACK does not work, notably when the damping factor is nearly or exactly 1.0.

Reviewer 2: Thank you so much for explaining!

I'm wondering if we should include a bit more information in the docs as well so people know what to choose, or do we kind of expect them to know? @niko4299 you can decide :)

Author: I think we don't need to add this information to docs because people working with PageRank either know about this or when they see these two options will google them and learn more about each method.

#### Output:

> * `node: Vertex` ➡ Vertex to calculate PageRank for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `node: Vertex` ➡ Vertex for which the PageRank is calculated.
```

> * `rank: double` ➡ Node PageRank.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `rank: double` ➡ Node's PageRank.
```

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL igraphalg.pagerank() YIELD *
RETURN node, rank;
```

### `get_shortest_path(source, target, weights, directed)`
Compute the shortest path in the graph.

#### Input:

> * `source: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Starting node for the path.
> * `target: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Ending node for the path. 
> * `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡  If `None`, every edge has weight/distance/cost 1. If a string, use this edge attribute as the edge weight. Any edge attribute not present defaults to 1.
> * `directed: bool (default=True)` ➡  Is Graph directed or undirected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `source: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Path's starting node. 
* `target: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Path's ending node. 
* `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡  If `None`, every edge has weight/distance/cost 1. If the value is a property name, use that property as the edge weight. If an edge doesn't have a property, the value defaults to 1.
* `directed: bool (default=True)` ➡ If `true`, the graph is directed, otherwise, it's undirected.
```

Reviewer 2: "weights" implies i can list several properties to use as weight?

Reviewer: Once again, not involved with this PR. Just noting that in igraph at least, `weights` is plural because the value is a _vector_ of weights, one value for each edge.

Reviewer 2: That's what I thought as well, just wanted to check! Thnx! :)

#### Output:
* `path: List[Vertex]` ➡  Path between `source` node and `target` node.

#### Usage:
```cypher
MATCH (n:Label), (m:Label)
CALL igraphalg.get_shortest_path(n, m) YIELD *
RETURN path;
```

### `shortest_path_length(source, target, weights, directed)`
Compute the shortest path length in the graph.

#### Input:

> * `source: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Starting node for the path.
> * `target: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Ending node for the path. 
> * `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡  If `None`, every edge has weight/distance/cost 1. If a string, use this edge attribute as the edge weight. Any edge attribute not present defaults to 1.
> * `directed: bool (default=True)` ➡  Is Graph directed or undirected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `source: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Path's starting node. 
* `target: Vertex (default=NULL)` ➡  Path's ending node. 
* `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡  If `None`, every edge has weight/distance/cost 1. If the value is a property name, use that property as the edge weight. If an edge doesn't have a property, the value defaults to 1.
* `directed: bool (default=True)` ➡ If `true`, the graph is directed, otherwise, it's undirected.
```

#### Input:

* `source: Vertex` ➡ Source node from which the maximum flow is calculated
* `target: Vertex` ➡ Sink node to which the max flow is calculated
* `capacity: string (default="weight")` ➡ Edge property which is used as the flow capacity of the edge

#### Output:

* `max_flow: Number` ➡ Maximum flow of the network, from source to sink

#### Usage:

```cypher
MATCH (source {id: 0}), (sink {id: 5})
CALL igraphalg.maxflow(source, sink, "weight")
YIELD max_flow
RETURN max_flow;
```

### `mincut(source, target, capacity,directed)`
Mincut calculates the minimum st-cut between two vertices in a graph.

#### Input:

* `source: Vertex` ➡ Source node from which the maximum flow is calculated
* `target: Vertex` ➡ Sink node to which the max flow is calculated
* `capacity: string (default="weight")` ➡ Edge property which is used as the capacity of the edge

#### Output:

* `node: Vertex` ➡ Vertex in graph.
* `partition_id: int` ➡ Id of partition where `node` belongs after mincut.

#### Usage:

```cypher
  MATCH (source {id: 0}), (sink {id: 5})
  CALL igraphalg.mincut(source, sink)
  YIELD node, partition_id 
  RETURN node, partition_id;
```

> ### `community_leiden(obejctive_function, weights, resolution_parameter, beta, initial_membership, n_iterations, node_weights)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `community_leiden(objective_function, weights, resolution_parameter, beta, initial_membership, n_iterations, node_weights)`
```

Finding community structure of a graph using the Leiden algorithm of Traag, van Eck & Waltman.

#### Input:

* `objective_function: string (default="CPM")` ➡ Whether to use the Constant Potts Model (CPM) or modularity. Must be either `CPM` or `modularity`.
* `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡ If a string is present, use this edge attribute as the edge weight if it isn't edge weights default to 1.
* `resolution_parameter: float (default=1.0)` ➡ Higher resolutions lead to smaller communities, while lower resolutions lead to fewer larger communities.
* `beta: float (default=0.01)` ➡ Parameter affecting the randomness in the Leiden algorithm. This affects only the refinement step of the algorithm.
* `initial_membership: List[int](default=NULL)` ➡  If provided, the Leiden algorithm will try to improve this provided membership. If no argument is provided, the algorithm simply starts from the singleton partition.
* `n_iterations: int (default=2)` ➡ The number of iterations to iterate the Leiden algorithm. Each iteration may improve the partition further.

> * `vertex_weights: List[float] (default=NULL) ➡ 	
> The vertex weights used in the Leiden algorithm. If this is not provided, it will be automatically determined based on the objective_function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `vertex_weights: List[float] (default=NULL) ➡ The vertex weights used in the Leiden algorithm. If this is not provided, it will be automatically determined based on the objective_function.
```

Reviewer 2: Ovdje je valjda falilo zatvaranje code formatinga, pa samo pliz provjeri jel sad ok

#### Output:

* `node: Vertex` ➡ Vertex in graph.
* `community_id: int` ➡ Id of community where `node` belongs.

#### Usage:

```cypher
    CALL igraphalg.community_leiden() 
    YIELD node, community_id
    RETURN node, community_id;
```

### `all_shortest_path_lengths( weights, directed)`
Compute all shortest path lengths in the graph.

#### Input:

> * `weights: string (default=NULL)` ➡  If `None`, every edge has weight/distance/cost 1. If a string, use this edge attribute as the edge weight. Any edge attribute not present defaults to 1.

Reviewer 2: change this to what i've changed the others to, if you agree
